# H-1B-Tech-Bias

### Introduction
This was a small project focused on researching whether a bias towards technology related fields exists within the H-1B visa program in the United States. The goal was to examine H-1B visa petitions from the years 2011-2016 and track how the program has adapted over time with regards to technology related positions. The dataset can be found online at https://www.kaggle.com/nsharan/h-1b-visa. The steps for the project were to separate each visa application based upon if the application was for a technology related position or not. This entailed separating the SOC titles for each application into Technology and Non-Technology applications. The SOC title is a federally regulated list of occupation titles that all H-1B visas applications must fall under. After separating the applications based on the relevance to technology the next step was to track and plot the visa application rejection rates for these different fields over time.

### Results
The number of H-1B visa applications has been growing steadily each year since the 1980's. While the total number of applications has continued to grow through the years 2011-2016, applications for non-tech jobs have have stagnated to a constant level.  In other words, the grown in the H-1B visa program over this period has been almost entirely driven by the increase in technology related applications. In addition, applications for technology related positions are less likely to be rejected compared to non-technology applications. This information leads to the conclusion that the H-1B visa program has adapted to become more favorable in regards to technology focused positions within the application process. For more detailed analysis of the project please refer to the writeup.pdf file in the repo.
